.TH BCV 1 "October 2025" "Version 1.0.1" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
bcv \- convert numbers to binary, octal, or hexadecimal representation
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B bcv
[\fBOPTION\fR] ... <\fINUMBER\fR>
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B bcv
is a lightweight command-line utility that converts numerical values between various bases, including binary (base 2), octal (base 8), and hexadecimal (base 16).  
It includes a built-in interactive shell for quick conversions, making it a practical tool for everyday development tasks or system scripting.  
.PP
Very useful for quick numeric conversions without relying on bloated tools.
.SH BASES
\fBBase 10\fR (decimal) is supported by default.
.TP
\fBBase 2\fR
Binary representation (digits 0–1)
.TP
\fBBase 8\fR
Octal representation (digits 0–7)
.TP
\fBBase 16\fR
Hexadecimal representation (digits 0–15, i.e., 0–f)
.SH USAGE
.nf
Usage: bcv [OPTION] ... <NUMBER>

Convert a number to a specific base.

Inline       | Interactive | Description
--------------|-------------|----------------------------+
-b <number>  | b/<number>  | Convert to binary base     |
-x <number>  | x/<number>  | Convert to hexadecimal base|
-o <number>  | o/<number>  | Convert to octal base      |
             | exit or quit| Exit the interactive shell |
--------------------------------------------------------+
-v, 'v' or '!'   Display program version
-h, 'h' or '?'   Display this help message
.fi
.SH INTERACTIVE SHELL
When started without arguments, \fBbcv\fR enters an interactive mode.  
You can then type commands such as:
.RS
b/<number>  → convert to binary  
.br
o/<number>  → convert to octal  
.br
x/<number>  → convert to hexadecimal  
.br
exit or quit → exit the shell  
.RE
.SH EXAMPLES
Here are some examples of \fBbcv\fR usage:
.TP
Convert 255 to hexadecimal:
.RS
bcv -x 255
.RE
.TP
Convert 42 to binary interactively:
.RS
bcv  
.br
b/42
.RE
.TP
Direct conversion:
.RS
bcv 12  
.br
Output:
.nf
DEC : 12
HEX : 0xC
OCT : 0o14
BIN : 0b1100
.fi
.RE
.TP
Convert a single character:
.RS
bcv E  
.br
Output:
.nf
DEC : 69
HEX : 0x45
OCT : 0o105
BIN : 0b1000101
.fi
.RE
.PP
.B bcv
can automatically detect the input base and convert it to all others.
.TP
Examples:
.RS
bcv 0xfeed  
.nf
DEC : 65261
OCT : 0o177355
BIN : 0b1111111011101101
.fi
.PP
bcv 0o23  
.nf
DEC : 19
HEX : 0x13
BIN : 0b10011
.fi
.PP
bcv 0b010011  
.nf
DEC : 19
HEX : 0x13
OCT : 0o23
.fi
.RE
.SH VERSION
BaseConverter (bcv) version 1.0.1  
by KerHack-Libre
.SH AUTHOR
Umar Ba <jUmarB@protonmail.com>  
.br
<https://github.com/Jukoo>
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (c) 2025 KerHack-Libre  
.br
This is free software with ABSOLUTELY NO WARRANTY.
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBbc\fR(1)

